The story presents the deep and sincere friendship between Sue and Jolinsy, two striving artists. The two girls met each other only six months before. Their common taste in art, food and fashion instantly sparked a friendship, and the two decided to share an apartment. Their decision of starting a joint studio may initially have been a matter of need and mutual help in time of poverty, but they soon develop a profound relationship. Their friendship is marked by love, loyalty, sacrifice and sincerity. When Johnsy is down with pneumonia, Sue attends to her day and night, nursing her. This shows her eagerness to be with her friend through thick and thin. She calls the doctor and spends her time nursing her ailing friend, Johnsy, even though she has to submit her drawings the next day. Johnsy had lost her will to live. Her eyes were always fixed on an ivy vine on the wall of the opposite brick house. She had imagined that when the last leaf would fall, she would die. She tries her best to keep up Johnsy's spirits. Sue bears with her friend's irritable and stubborn nature. It is her care and nursing which help Johnsy's quick recovery.The story also throws light on the relationship that Behrman shares with Sue and Johnsy. He even poses for Sue for her painting. He is fond of the two as he too is a striving artist. When the old man gets to know about Johnsy's strange fancy, he makes up his mind to do something to save the young girl's life. He goes out in the heavy rain and paints an ivy leaf on the wall, after the last leaf has fallen. The leaf was painted so brilliantly that it appeared a real ivy leaf to Johnsy. This tevives in Johnsy the will to live. While painting, he gets thoroughly drenched and catches pneumonia. He soon dies, being old and weak. Thus, the old artist sacrifices his own life to save Johnsy. The noble soul of this ordinary old man, who accomplished an extraordinary feat by sacrificing his life is praiseworthy. His masterpiece and the sacrifice he makes immortalises him.